♪ [music] ♪
Now we need to talk about routing.
Routing means that when I go to just
localhost or wesbos.com it's going to
render out this StorePicker component.
Then when I change the URL here to
store/something funny,
I'll show you how to get those funny names
in just a second, that will change and
show me the App component. Then when I see
any random URL, it's not going to work.
It's going to give me a "404 not found" or
something like that.
That's really all the routing that our
application is going to have.
However, routing can get really complex
and really in-depth. We are going to be
using React Router, which is not part of
React, however. It's sort of the industry
standard when you need routing inside of
React. We're going to be using React
Router 4. There's been a whole bunch of
versions of React Router and they seem to
have settled on React Router version 4.
What it allows you to do is basically just
show and hide components anywhere inside
of your application depending on if you're
on the page you wish to show them or not.
The way that we're going to do that is we
are going to open up our index.js and
instead of just rendering out our App or
our StorePicker directly, we're going to
create some routes that say, "If I'm on a
store page, show me the App component.
If I'm on the homepage,
show me the StorePicker component. And if
it doesn't match anything, like someone
mistyped a URL, show me a NotFound
component." That's what we're going to do
in index.js. We need a couple things to
import from React Router so I'm going to
import. We want to do this above
our components here.
We need the 'BrowserRouter' from 'react-router'.
We need 'Match' and we need 'Miss'.
This is a pretty cool API. I think you'll
like working with this.
I'm going to import that from React
Router. Then what we need to do is make a
component which is going to be our router.
When I said earlier,
I said everything in React is a component,
I wasn't kidding. Even the router itself
is a component. I'm going to do the
component right in my index.js.
You can do it in a separate file if you
want but I'm going to do it right above
our render here. We're going to make
ourselves a stateless functional component
just like we did with the header. We say
"const Root". I'm just naming it 'Root'.
Some people call it 'Main' or 'App' or
whatever it is, but I've already used 'App'
and I like 'Root'. So we'll say "=". And
from here I am going to open some curly
brackets and we are going to return some
JSX. Now we first wrapped the entire thing
in a BrowserRouter component and then
inside of that we have these 'Match' and
'Miss'. And this is really cool. We have a
'Match' tag and if one of those matches,
it can be self-closing if we want, we will
say "exactly pattern='/'".
When the pattern is exactly "/",
meaning that when I am exactly on the
homepage, which component should I show?
I'll say "component=".
Right? So that looks good. What's cool
about these matches is you can put these
'Match's anywhere in your application.
Let's say you're four or five levels deep
and you have a sidebar and the client says
"Oh I only want to show that sidebar
widget when I'm on the specific page."
What's cool about that is you can just pop
in another 'Match', match the actual pattern
that you're looking for,
and say "render out this widget into the
sidebar." So I have match '/'.
We also are going to have match '/store/'.
Then our store name could be anything.
That's when we have some parameters here.
We're going to call that 'storeID'. This storeID,
like if I visit 'fierce-clumsy-leaves',
that is going to be made available
to us when we visit that actual page.
The component we're going to render out is
App. Let's see if that works then we'll do
the 'Miss', which is our last one here. Here
we are...not working yet and the reason is
because we've made this Root component but
we're still directly rendering out this
App component. So we're going to replace
"App" with "Root", which will indirectly call
App or StorePicker. Here we go. Oh, we've
got a bit of an issue here.
"Invariant Violation: React.Children.only
expected to receive a single React
element child." I think the issue is here
that these 'Match', they can't be a direct
child of BrowserRouter. Let's try to wrap
a div around these real quick.
There we go. That worked for us. So on
'/' we see the StorePicker.
Then when I go to 'store/123',
it renders out the App.
Then if I go to nothing, let's see what
happens. We get an error here.
"Warning, 'Miss' is defined but not used" and
it doesn't render out anything to us.
Why? Because we have not yet rendered out
a 'Miss' tag. We're going to say "Miss".
Then anything that is a miss, we are going
to render out a component called 'NotFound'.
This is a new thing to us. Whenever
you pass in a JavaScript variable as
props, remember these are just props.
"pattern", "component". Whenever I pass those
in, if you're not passing like a string,
if you're passing a number,
a boolean or a variable you need to put in
it curly brackets and then pass 'NotFound'.
We don't have a NotFound component. It's
going to tell us we don't have that.
So I'm going to go back to my components
folder, make a new one called notfound.js,
and I'm just going to grab some code from
my order.js. Go to notfound, replace it
with 'NotFound'.
Here we can just maybe return an h1. Not
found. Then we'll head back to our
index.js and just as we imported App and
StorePicker, we also need to import that
last one, which is going to be NotFound.
That's our component, and it will be
rendered out. There we go. Now any time we
go to a URL that doesn't exist,
it's going to render out "Not Found!111!!" If we
go to our main, we should see, "Enter a
store." When we go to a store, any store,
it's going to show us our App component.
In the next video what we're going to do
is we're going to look at how do we
actually hook that up so I don't have to
type in the URLs here,
but if I hit submit, that data is going to
change the URL without us having to even
reload the entire page.